---
layout: post
title:      "First Project"
date:       2020-01-17 03:03:55 +0000
permalink:  first_project
---


    My first project at Flatiron School has taught me a lot about code and myself. This has been my first experience with creative freedom in programming and being totally on my own. At first not having test to run my code against to see if I was doing everything right and not having the ask a question feature at my finger tips to guide me along the process was a little scary. But once I came up with a plan and started actually coding I knew that this career path was the right choice for me. I absolutley fell in love with the process, and with pry. I have spent more time bound up in a pry than with my girlfriend this past week and I think shes getting a little jealouse. 

    I chose to make my project a pokedex from pokemon. A pokedex is a tool used in Pokemon to find out some information about a pokemon. In my app you start off with a couple lines greeting you and telling you a little about the pokedex. Then you hit menu with a few options asking you which generation you want to view or if you want to view all the generations available. I only chose to use the first four generations because after that I have no idea whats going on. So after choosing which generation you want to see a numbered list will be displayed of all the pokemon in that generation then you can choose a pokemon to list some base stats for or navigate back to the main menu. I chose to use base stats for my data so in the future I could possibly form that into a cli game. Please dont sue me nintendo! After viewing the stats you can navigate to another generation or exit the application. 
		
		At the beginning of project week I was feeling anxious. I have been getting through all the labs and I felt like I was absorbing the information but I was not sure if I could actually build something that would be functional. Once I got started I ran into several problems the api that I was using was massive and had a ton of nested data structures some were arrays of hashes and each key of the hash pointed to another array of hashes and so on. I was very intimidated but I knew if I just took it one step at a time I could figure it out. My project is far from fancy but I am extremely proud of it. I can not beleive how far I have already came on this journey and it really lit a fire for the process and made me appreciate it so much more. All the hours working on labs thinking is this actually going to be useful or am I really going to use this. I feel like everything I have learned so far in this course really came together in this project and it was such an overwhelming feeling and has made me a lot more confident in my ability to move forward in this journey. 
